armor: Armor reduces incoming damage by 1 per stack. On taking damage lose 1 armor.
crush: Crush damage removes 1 extra stack of armor.
slash: Unblocked slash damage applies 1 bleed.
stab: Stab damage removes 1 extra stack of block.
block: Prevents incoming damage. Removed at the start of turn.
move: Move yourself to an empty tile anywhere up to the given distance away.
fire: Unblocked fire damage applies 1 burn.
push: Move a unit away from yourself. If its destination is blocked both units in the collision take 2 knockback damage.
pull: Move a unit towards yourself. If its destination is blocked both units in the collision take 2 knockback damage.
retain: This card cannot be discarded.
purge: Remove this card from the game.
burn: Put this card in the burned pile.
reaction: On taking damage from a unit, if this is the top card of the reaction pile, trigger its effects.
heal: Restore health. Healing cannot cause your health to exceed your max health.
max health: The upper limit for healing.
eternal: This card cannot be removed from play.
unique: There can only be one copy of this card.
X: When played, takes the rest of your energy and sets X to that value.
dodge: Reaction card that reduces incoming damage by 50-100%.
silent: Does not trigger the effects of any other cards.
transform: This card becomes another card of the same type.
slay: Triggered when this card/unit kills a unit.
retain: Cards with retain are not discarded at the end of turn. 
energy: Energy is spent to play cards.
shadow: Shadow damage adds a stack of corruption, increasing the damage the target takes from subsequent attacks.
light: Light damage adds a stack of dazzled, which reduces the target's strength.
piercing: Piercing damage ignores block and armor.
ally: a friendly unit other than Mora.
allies: friendly units other than Mora.
counterattack: On reaction deal damage back to the attacker.
grows: The Void swallows the tile its tentacles point to, then has a chance to spawn new enemies.
unit: Mora, the void, or any other creature. Does not include terrain features.
storm: Storm damage has a 5% chance of being doubled.
backstab: Backstab damage deals triple damage if you have stealth
freeze: Add frozen to a card. That card is kept in hand until played or discarded other than at end of turn
frozen: Frozen cards are retained in hand until they are played or moved out of hand by any effect other than end of turn discard. 
permafrost: This card is always frozen.
hail: hail damage adds 1 frost, temporarily reducing the targets strength.
charge: gain battery
deplete: spend battery in order to play this card or to get the full effect.
